Chapter 1: Introduction to Psychology
#####################################


.. meta::
   :author: Justpsychiatry
   :description: This section covers 
   :keywords: psychology, clinically-oriented psychology, clinical psychology, MRCPsych, introduction
   :date: 


.. contents::
   :depth: 3
..

|An illustration shows the outlines of two human heads facing toward one
another, with several photographs of people spread across the
background.|\ {:}

Clive Wearing is an accomplished musician who lost his ability to form
new memories when he became sick at the age of 46. While he can remember
how to play the piano perfectly, he cannot remember what he ate for
breakfast just an hour ago (Sacks, 2007). James Wannerton experiences a
taste sensation that is associated with the sound of words. His former
girlfriend’s name tastes like rhubarb (Mundasad, 2013). John Nash is a
brilliant mathematician and Nobel Prize winner. However, while he was a
professor at MIT, he would tell people that the *New York Times*
contained coded messages from extraterrestrial beings that were intended
for him. He also began to hear voices and became suspicious of the
people around him. Soon thereafter, Nash was diagnosed with
schizophrenia and admitted to a state-run mental institution (O’Connor &
Robertson, 2002). Nash was the subject of the 2001 movie *A Beautiful
Mind*. Why did these people have these experiences? How does the human
brain work? And what is the connection between the brain’s internal
processes and people’s external behaviors? This textbook will introduce
you to various ways that the field of psychology has explored these
questions.



.. toctree::
   :caption: Table of Contents
   :glob:
   :maxdepth: 2
   
   m49027*
   m49014*
   m49015*
   m*
   *


.. |An illustration shows the outlines of two human heads facing toward one another, with several photographs of people spread across the background.| image:: ../resources/CNX_Psych_01_00_Collage.jpg