Chapter 6: Learning
###################

.. figure:: ../resources/CNX_Psych_06_00_Turtles
   :scale: 100 %
   :alt: A photograph shows a baby turtle moving across sand toward the ocean.

    A photograph shows a baby turtle moving across sand toward the ocean. 
   
    A photograph shows a young child standing on a surfboard in a small
    wave.

The summer sun shines brightly on a deserted stretch of beach. Suddenly,
a tiny grey head emerges from the sand, then another and another. Soon
the beach is teeming with loggerhead sea turtle hatchlings
(`[link] <#fs-idp78123968>`__). Although only minutes old, the
hatchlings know exactly what to do. Their flippers are not very
efficient for moving across the hot sand, yet they continue onward,
instinctively. Some are quickly snapped up by gulls circling overhead
and others become lunch for hungry ghost crabs that dart out of their
holes. Despite these dangers, the hatchlings are driven to leave the
safety of their nest and find the ocean.

Not far down this same beach, Ben and his son, Julian, paddle out into
the ocean on surfboards. A wave approaches. Julian crouches on his
board, then jumps up and rides the wave for a few seconds before losing
his balance. He emerges from the water in time to watch his father ride
the face of the wave.

Unlike baby sea turtles, which know how to find the ocean and swim with
no help from their parents, we are not born knowing how to swim (or
surf). Yet we humans pride ourselves on our ability to learn. In fact,
over thousands of years and across cultures, we have created
institutions devoted entirely to learning. But have you ever asked
yourself how exactly it is that we learn? What processes are at work as
we come to know what we know? This chapter focuses on the primary ways
in which learning occurs.


.. toctree::
   :caption: Table of Contents
   :glob:
   :maxdepth: 2
   
   01-what-is-learning*
   02-classical-conditioning*
   03-operant-conditioning*
   04-observational-learning

   *
...
.. |A photograph shows a baby turtle moving across sand toward the ocean. A photograph shows a young child standing on a surfboard in a small wave.| image:: ../resources/CNX_Psych_06_00_Turtles.jpg
