References
==========

.. [Anderson2008] Anderson, C. A., & Gentile, D. A. (2008). Media violence, aggression,
                  and public policy. In E. Borgida & S. Fiske (Eds.), Beyond common sense:
                  Psychological science in the courtroom (p. 322). Malden, MA: Blackwell.

.. [Bandura1961] Bandura, A., Ross, D., & Ross, S. A. (1961). Transmission of aggression
                 through imitation of aggressive models. *Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 63*, 575–582.

.. [Cangi2013] Cangi, K., & Daly, M. (2013). The effects of token economies on the occurrence of appropriate and inappropriate behaviors by children with autism in a social skills setting. *West Chester University: Journal of Undergraduate Research*. Retrieved from http://www.wcupa.edu/UndergraduateResearch/journal/documents/cangi\_S2012.pdf

.. [Carlson2010] Carlson, L., Holscher, C., Shipley, T., & Conroy Dalton, R. (2010). Getting lost in buildings. *Current Directions in Psychological Science, 19*\ (5), 284–289.

.. [Cialdini2008] Cialdini, R. B. (2008). *Influence: Science and practice* (5th ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson Education.

.. [Chance2009] Chance, P. (2009). *Learning and behavior* (6th ed.). Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, Cengage Learning.

DeAngelis, T. (2010). ‘Little Albert’ regains his identity. *Monitor on
Psychology, 41*\ (1), 10.

Franzen, H. (2001, May 24). Gambling, like food and drugs, produces
feelings of reward in the brain. Scientific American [online]. Retrieved
from
http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=gamblinglike-food-and-dru

Fryer, R. G., Jr. (2010, April). Financial incentives and student
achievement: Evidence from randomized trials. *National Bureau of
Economic Research [NBER] Working Paper, No. 15898*. Retrieved from
http://www.nber.org/papers/w15898
.. [Garcia1966] Garcia, J., & Koelling, R. A. (1966). Relation of cue to consequence in
 avoidance learning. *Psychonomic Science, 4*, 123–124.

.. [Garcia1980] Garcia, J., & Rusiniak, K. W. (1980). What the nose learns from the
 mouth. In D. Müller-Schwarze & R. M. Silverstein (Eds.), *Chemical
 signals: Vertebrates and aquatic invertebrates* (pp. 141–156). New York,
 NY: Plenum Press.

Gershoff, E. T. (2002). Corporal punishment by parents and associated
child behaviors and experiences: A meta-analytic and theoretical review.
*Psychological Bulletin, 128*\ (4), 539–579.
doi:10.1037//0033-2909.128.4.539

Gershoff, E.T., Grogan-Kaylor, A., Lansford, J. E., Chang, L., Zelli,
A., Deater-Deckard, K., & Dodge, K. A. (2010). Parent discipline
practices in an international sample: Associations with child behaviors
and moderation by perceived normativeness. *Child Development, 81*\ (2),
487–502.

Hickock, G. (2010). The role of mirror neurons in speech and language
processing. *Brain and Language, 112*, 1–2.

Holmes, S. (1993). Food avoidance in patients undergoing cancer
chemotherapy. *Support Care Cancer, 1*\ (6), 326–330.

Hunt, M. (2007). *The story of psychology*. New York, NY: Doubleday.

Huston, A. C., Donnerstein, E., Fairchild, H., Feshbach, N. D., Katz, P.
A., Murray, J. P., . . . Zuckerman, D. (1992). *Big world, small screen:
The role of television in American society*. Lincoln, NE: University of
Nebraska Press.

Hutton, J. L., Baracos, V. E., & Wismer, W. V. (2007). Chemosensory
dysfunction is a primary factor in the evolution of declining
nutritional status and quality of life with patients with advanced
cancer. *Journal of Pain Symptom Management, 33*\ (2), 156–165.

Illinois Institute for Addiction Recovery. (n.d.). *WTVP on gambling*.
Retrieved from http://www.addictionrecov.org/InTheNews/Gambling/

Jacobsen, P. B., Bovbjerg, D. H., Schwartz, M. D., Andrykowski, M. A.,
Futterman, A. D., Gilewski, T., . . . Redd, W. H. (1993). Formation of
food aversions in cancer patients receiving repeated infusions of
chemotherapy. *Behaviour Research and Therapy, 31*\ (8), 739–748.

Kirsch, SJ (2010). Media and youth: A developmental perspective. Malden
MA: Wiley Blackwell.

Lefrançois, G. R. (2012). *Theories of human learning: What the
professors said* (6th ed.). Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, Cengage Learning.

Miller, L. E., Grabell, A., Thomas, A., Bermann, E., & Graham-Bermann,
S. A. (2012). The associations between community violence, television
violence, intimate partner violence, parent-child aggression, and
aggression in sibling relationships of a sample of preschoolers.
*Psychology of Violence, 2(2),* 165–78. doi:10.1037/a0027254

Murrell, A., Christoff, K. & Henning, K. (2007) Characteristics of
domestic violence offenders: associations with childhood exposure to
violence. *Journal of Family Violence, 22*\ (7), 523-532.

Pavlov, I. P. (1927). *Conditioned reflexes: An investigation of the
physiological activity of the cerebral cortex* (G. V. Anrep, Ed. &
Trans.). London, UK: Oxford University Press.

Rizzolatti, G., Fadiga, L., Fogassi, L., & Gallese, V. (2002). From
mirror neurons to imitation: Facts and speculations. In A. N. Meltzoff &
W. Prinz (Eds.), *The imitative mind: Development, evolution, and brain
bases* (pp. 247–66). Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University
Press.

Rizzolatti, G., Fogassi, L., & Gallese, V. (2006, November). Mirrors in
the mind. *Scientific American* [online], pp. 54–61.

Roy, A., Adinoff, B., Roehrich, L., Lamparski, D., Custer, R., Lorenz,
V., . . . Linnoila, M. (1988). Pathological gambling: A psychobiological
study. *Archives of General Psychiatry, 45*\ (4), 369–373.
doi:10.1001/archpsyc.1988.01800280085011

Skinner, B. F. (1938). *The behavior of organisms: An experimental
analysis*. New York, NY: Appleton-Century-Crofts.

Skinner, B. F. (1953). *Science and human behavior*. New York, NY:
Macmillan.

Skinner, B. F. (1961). *Cumulative record: A selection of papers*. New
York, NY: Appleton-Century-Crofts.

Skinner’s utopia: Panacea, or path to hell? (1971, September 20). *Time*
[online]. Retrieved from
http://www.wou.edu/~girodm/611/Skinner%27s\_utopia.pdf

Skolin, I., Wahlin, Y. B., Broman, D. A., Hursti, U-K. K., Larsson, M.
V., & Hernell, O. (2006). Altered food intake and taste perception in
children with cancer after start of chemotherapy: Perspectives of
children, parents and nurses. *Supportive Care in Cancer, 14*, 369–78.

Thorndike, E. L. (1911). Animal intelligence: An experimental study of
the associative processes in animals. *Psychological Monographs, 8*.

.. [Tolman1930] Tolman, E. C., & Honzik, C. H. (1930). Degrees of hunger, reward, and
 non-reward, and maze performance in rats. *University of California
 Publications in Psychology, 4*, 241–256.

.. [Tolman1946] Tolman, E. C., Ritchie, B. F., & Kalish, D. (1946). Studies in spatial
 learning: II. Place learning versus response learning. *Journal of
 Experimental Psychology, 36*, 221–229. doi:10.1037/h0060262

Watson, J. B. & Rayner, R. (1920). Conditioned emotional reactions.
*Journal of Experimental Psychology, 3*, 1–14.

Watson, J. B. (1919). *Psychology from the standpoint of a behaviorist*.
Philadelphia, PA: J. B. Lippincott.

Yamamoto, S., Humle, T., & Tanaka, M. (2013). Basis for cumulative
cultural evolution in chimpanzees: Social learning of a more efficient
tool-use technique. *PLoS ONE, 8*\ (1): e55768.
doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0055768

