.. _theories-of-learning-bcqs:

==========================================
Theories of Learning Best-Choice Questions
==========================================


The following are some free practice questions on this chapter. 
For answers and explanations, google **Justpsychiatry Question Bank**.

.. card:: BCQ

    .. card:: Q1
        
        In which type of learning does a neutral stimulus cause a response?
        
        a. Classical conditioning
        b. Latent learning
        c. Observational learning
        d. Operant conditioning
        e. Social learning

        .. dropdown:: Explanation
            
        An unconditioned stimulus causes an unconditioned response. According to
        the principles of classical conditioning, if we pair another
        stimulus---the neutral stimulus---with the unconditioned stimulus for a
        long time, the neutral stimulus would evoke a conditioned response. The
        best answer would be classical conditioning. (McSweeney & Murphy, 2014)

.. card:: BCQ

    .. card:: Q2
    
     Keeping the principles of conditioning theories in mind, which one
     of the following is a stimulus that does not initially cause a
     response?

     a. Neutral stimulus
     b. Primary reinforcer
     c. Prompt
     d. Secondary reinforcer
     e. Unconditioned stimulus
   
   .. dropdown::
       
        A neutral stimulus is a stimulus that does not initially cause a
        response. An unconditioned stimulus reflexively triggers a response.

.. card:: Q3
    
    Considering the principles of conditioning theories, which one
    refers to a situation or event that reflexively and automatically
    triggers a response?

       a. Motor reflex
       b. Neutral stimulus
       c. Primary reinforcer
       d. Unconditioned reaction
       e. Unconditioned stimulus

1.  A therapist is helping a patient learn social skills. One skill the
    therapist wants him to develop is a social smile. He gave him an
    exercise to smile every time he greets someone, with the underlying
    intention to make him likeable and pleasant. If he does this as
    advised, what would be the reinforcement schedule for his social
    contacts?

     The interval between meeting people is variable.

        Continuous
        Fixed-Interval
        Fixed Ratio
        Variable-Interval
        Variable-Ratio

2. According to the psychologist who conducted the Bobo doll
    experiment, young children can learn by watching other children. Who
    founded this type of learning?

    The Bobo doll experiments were a series of experiments performed by
    psychologist Albert Bandura between 1961 and 1963 to test his social
    learning theory. His most remarkable experiment evaluated children's
    behaviour after they observed an adult model physically abusing the Bobo
    doll and then experiencing a reward, punishment, or no consequence at
    all.

    #. Albert Bandura
    #. BF Skinner
    #. Edward Thorndike
    #. John Watson
    #. Pavlov

3.  According to the theory of social learning, which one refers to a
    person who can influence people with positive or negative behaviour?

    #. Antisocial Model
    #. Leader
    #. Modeller
    #. Prosocial Model
    #. Role Model

4.  In which one of the following does trial and error learning lead to
    an association of stimuli and responses?

    #. Classical conditioning
    #. Latent learning
    #. Observational learning
    #. Operant conditioning
    #. The law of effect

5.  Any response followed by a satisfying situation is likely to be
    repeated, while behaviours resulting in an annoying situation are
    less likely to occur. Which one of the following does it describe?

The best answer would be the "law of effect", which Edward Thorndike
proposed in the early twentieth century. The law states that favourable
consequences of behaviours increase, while unfavourable decrease the
likelihood of the behaviour (that lead to the negative outcome). Unlike
skinner's operant conditioning, it does not describe reinforcement (or
punishment) of a behaviour.

Classical conditioning

Latent learning

Observational learning

Operant conditioning

\*The law of effect

Learning theories

8.  Years after Pavlov described classical conditioning, a theorist
    pointed out how classical conditioning explained
    automatically-elicited behaviours but not the more complex
    voluntarily emitted behaviours. Who was this person?

BF Skinner pointed out that classical conditioning explained
automatically elicited behaviours but could not explain more complex
voluntarily emitted behaviours. He founded operant conditioning---a
theory of behaviour based on the way behaviours operate in the
environment.

\*BF Skinner

Freud

Ivan Pavlov

LL Thurstone

Piaget

Learning theories

9.  Which one of these refers to a relatively stable change in behaviour
    due to experience:

The best answer would be learning. Types of learning might include
operant conditioning, classical conditioning, and observational
learning.

Continuation

Development

\*Learning

Temperament

Trait

Learning theories

10. From the perspective of learning theories, which one refers to
    something in the environment a person can react to or respond to?

The best answer would be a stimulus.

Contingency

Reaction

Reinforcer

Response

\*Stimulus

Learning theories

11. From the perspective of learning theories, which one refers to
    behaviour or reaction to something in the environment?

The best answer would be a response.

Consequence

Pairing

Reinforcer

\*Response

Stimulus

Learning theories

12. Considering the principles of conditioning theories, which one
    refers to an automatic reaction to the unconditioned stimulus?

An unconditioned response is the automatic response of a subject to the
unconditioned stimulus. An unconditioned stimulus is a situation or
event that reflexively and automatically triggers a response. A neutral
stimulus does not initially cause a response.

Conditioned Reaction

Conditioned Response

Primary outcome

\*Unconditioned Reaction

Unconditioned Response

Learning theories

13. Which one of the following refers to developing a new response or
    learning?

Acquisition refers to the initial stages of learning when a response is
established. Classical conditioning refers to the period when the
stimulus comes to evoke the conditioned response.

\*Acquisition

Discrimination

Extinction

Fading

Generalisation

Learning theories

14. Lessening a learned response:

Lessening a learned response is stimulus extinction.

Acquisition

Discrimination

\*Extinction

Fading

Generalisation

Learning theories

15. The famous early physician who, while studying the digestion of
    dogs, discovered classical conditioning:

Ivan Petrovich Pavlov was a famous Russian physiologist who won a noble
prize in physiology and medicine. While experimenting on the digestive
system of dogs, he observed that the dog would salivate even before he
would offer him meat, only on hearing a bell ringing or by other cues of
meat being imminently served to the dog.

Abraham Maslow

Albert Bandura

BF Skinner

\*Ivan Pavlov

John Watson

Learning theories

16. Keeping the learning principles in mind, which one of these refers
    to the tendency to emit a similar response to two "almost similar"
    stimuli?

Stimulus generalisation is the tendency of a new stimulus to evoke
responses or behaviours like those elicited by another stimulus. It
occurs when a response reinforced by a stimulus takes place for the
first time in the presence of a structurally similar stimulus. For
example, feeling humiliated at a party or avoiding a dance party after a
humiliating experience in a similar setting. Stimulus generalisation
explains how in social phobia and agoraphobia, one initial encounter
causes the fear and avoidance of similar circumstances, leading to a
social anxiety disorder or agoraphobia.

Acquisition

Discrimination

Extinction

\*Generalisation

Indifference

Learning theories

17. According to this perspective, psychology should be restricted to
    studying observable behaviours:

Behaviourism is the theory that we can explain behaviour by the
principles of conditioning, without taking thought or feelings into
consideration and that we can treat psychiatric disorders using
behaviour modification.

\*Behaviourism

Cognitive

Freudism

Humanism

Nature v Nurture

Learning theories

18. According to the principles of operant conditioning, what term is
    used for something that happens after the subject emits a behaviour?

By the principles of operant conditioning, the probability of a
behaviour occurring in the future is primarily determined by the
consequence of that behaviour. If a desirable outcome follows the
behaviour, its likelihood in future will increase, and vice versa. The
term operant conditioning used for something that follows the behaviour
is "consequence".

\*Consequence

Outcome

Reinforcement

Result

Stimuli

Learning theories

19. Psychologist who developed the principle and techniques of operant
    conditioning:

BF Skinner.

\*BF Skinner

Edward Thorndike

Ivan Pavlov

John Watson

Rosalie Rayner

Learning theories

20. Any consequence that increases the future likelihood of a behaviour:

Reinforcement refers to any consequences that increase the future
likelihood of a behaviour. Punishment always decreases behaviour. When
the results are attained by removing a stimulus, it would be negative
reinforcement or punishment. When the results are attained by adding
something, we call it positive reinforcement or punishment.

Negative punishment

Positive reinforcement

Punishment

\*Reinforcement

Unconditioned response

Learning theories

21. Increasing behaviour by following it with a desirable consequence:

Increasing a behaviour by following it with a desirable outcome is an
example of positive reinforcement. A reinforcement always increases a
behaviour. Punishment decreases behaviour. When we attain the results by
removing a stimulus, it is negative reinforcement or punishment. When
the results are attained by adding something, we call it positive
reinforcement or positive punishment.

Negative Punishment

Negative Reinforcement

Positive Punishment

\*Positive Reinforcement

Reinforcement

Learning theories

22. Increasing behaviour by removing undesirable consequences that is,
    taking away what they do not want:

A reinforcement always increases a behaviour. Punishment always
decreases a behaviour. When the results are attained by removal of a
stimulus, etc., it would be negative reinforcement or punishment. When
the results are attained by adding something, we call it positive
reinforcement or punishment.

Avoidance learning

Negative Punishment

\*Negative Reinforcement

Positive Punishment

Positive Reinforcement

Learning theories

23. Which one of these best fits "getting paid ten dollars an hour to
    stay away from alcohol"?

Staying away from alcohol for an hour leads to positive outcomes. This
exemplifies positive reinforcement. A reinforcer always increases a
behaviour.

Contingent reinforcement

Negative Punishment

\*Negative Reinforcement

Positive Punishment

Positive Reinforcement

Learning theories

24. A 20-year-old man with obsessive-compulsive personality disorder
    feels distressed to notice anything messy in his room. He has a
    habit of cleaning his room to get rid of even slight clutter. This
    is an example of:

A messy room creates feelings of distress in this patient. When he
cleans the room, he successfully gets rid of the distress. The behaviour
of cleaning the room removes an unpleasant feeling. Thus, it is negative
reinforcement.

Associative learning

Negative Punishment

\*Negative Reinforcement

Positive Punishment

Positive Reinforcement

Learning theories

25. Having to clean up the whole house after argumentation with mother:

Positive punishment.

Escape learning

Negative Punishment

Negative Reinforcement

\*Positive punishment

Positive Reinforcement

Learning theories

26. Having a cell phone privilege taken away after cheating on a test
    would be an example of:

Negative punishment

Avoidance learning

\*Negative Punishment

Negative Reinforcement

Positive Punishment

Positive Reinforcement

Learning theories

27. We present consequences within a few seconds to a minute of the
    behaviour:

**Contingency** means the reinforcer should only be available when the
target behaviour has been performed. **Immediacy means** the reinforcer
should be delivered immediately after the target behaviour.
Reinforcement delayed may not reinforce the target behaviour.

Contingency

Fading

\*Immediacy

Reinforcer

Shaping

Learning theories

28. Something that is learned to have value is a:

A secondary reinforcer, for example, money. It gains value through
classical conditioning but can then be a reinforcer in operant
conditioning.

Artificial reinforcer

Conditioned stimulus

Primary Reinforcer

\*Secondary Reinforcer

Unnatural Reinforcer

Learning theories

29. A reward that follows every time the subject makes the correct
    response:

This is continuous reinforcement. It is less resistant to extinction
compared to intermittent reinforcement schedules.

\*Continuous reinforcement

Fixed-interval reinforcement

Fixed ratio reinforcement

Partial reinforcement

Serial reinforcement

Learning theories

30. What is the reinforcement schedule when we reward the correct
    response after a set duration of time?

The reinforcement schedule is fixed-interval when the subject receives a
reward after a fixed duration of time.

\*Fixed-Interval

Fixed ratio

Interval schedule

Variable-Interval

Variable-Ratio

Learning theories

31. A child with an intellectual disability has problem behaviours. He
    is rewarded for wanted behaviours every 12 hours on average, the
    third time he exhibits the wanted behaviour in the specified 12
    hours duration of the day. What is the schedule of reinforcement?

Rewards a correct behaviour after an unpredictable amount of time.

Continuous

Fixed-Interval

Fixed Ratio

\*Variable-Interval

Variable-Ratio

Learning theories

32. A parent rewards a child after a certain number of correct
    behaviours. What schedule of reinforcement is being utilised?

Fixed ratio.

Continuous

Fixed-Interval

\*Fixed Ratio

Variable-Interval

Variable-Ratio

Learning theories

33. A child is showing tantrums at an increasing frequency. When he
    shows such behaviour, his parents' attention turns toward him,
    getting what he wants. What reinforcement schedule are they using?

This is continuous reinforcement. It is less resistant to extinction
compared to intermittent reinforcement schedules.

\*Continuous

Fixed-Interval

Fixed Ratio

Variable-Interval

Variable-Ratio

Learning theories

34. People develop an addiction to Gambling that is difficult to get rid
    of because the reinforcement schedule used is:

Variable-ratio.

Continuous

Fixed-Interval

Fixed Ratio

Variable-Interval

\*Variable-Ratio

Learning theories

35. The process by which a stimulus or an event follows a behaviour
    increases the probability of the behaviour happening again. This
    best defines:

The best answer would be c) reinforcement.

Incubation

Punishment

\*Reinforcement

Reinforcer

Shaping

Learning theories

36. These are inherently desirable and do not acquire reinforcing value
    through experience:

The best answer would be d) primary unconditioned reinforcers. Primary
unconditioned reinforcers: Inherently desirable and do not acquire
reinforcing value through experience. For example, food. Generalised
secondary reinforcers: Acquire reinforcing value through their
association with a primary reinforcer. For example, a token reinforces
because it is associated with a naturally reinforcing stimulus.

Generalised secondary reinforcers

Natural reinforcers

Primary conditioned reinforcers

\*Primary unconditioned reinforcers

Tertiary unconditioned reinforcers

Learning theories

37. These acquire reinforcing value through their association with a
    primary reinforcer:

The best answer would be a) generalised secondary reinforcers. Primary
unconditioned reinforcers: Inherently desirable and do not acquire
reinforcing value through experience, for example, food. Generalised
secondary reinforcers: Acquire reinforcing value through their
association with a primary reinforcer. For example, a token is
reinforcing because it is associated with a naturally reinforcing
stimulus.

\*Generalised secondary reinforcers

Natural reinforcers

Primary conditioned reinforcers

Primary unconditioned reinforcers

Tertiary unconditioned reinforcers

Learning theories

38. Adding a positive stimulus to increase behaviour or providing
    something pleasant, for example, receiving a gold star for a good
    piece of homework:

The best answer would be d) positive reinforcement.

Negative punishment

Negative reinforcement

Positive punishment

\*Positive reinforcement

Shaping behaviour

Learning theories

39. Taking away a negative stimulus to increase behaviour or taking away
    something unpleasant which in turn strengthens the behaviour:

Negative reinforcement.

Negative punishment

\*Negative reinforcement

Positive punishment

Positive reinforcement

Shaping behaviour

Learning theories

40. Add negative stimulus to decrease behaviour or provide something
    unpleasant, for example, writing lines for not doing homework. This
    would best describe:

The best answer would be positive punishment. In terms of operant
conditioning, punishment always leads to a decrease in behaviour. When
we achieve the said result by adding a stimulus, it would be positive
punishment, while negative punishment occurs when removing an aversive
stimulus.

Negative punishment

Negative reinforcement

\*Positive punishment

Positive reinforcement

Shaping behaviour

Learning theories

41. Removing a positive stimulus to decrease behaviour or taking away
    something pleasant, for example, losing lunch break for not doing
    homework. This best describes:

The best answer would be a) negative punishment. In terms of operant
conditioning, anything decreasing a behaviour is a punishment. A
reinforcement always leads to an increased likelihood of the behaviour.
"Positive" refers to applying a stimulus, while "Negative" means
withholding or removing a stimulus. A reinforcer always increases the
probability or intensity of a response occurring. Punishment decreases
the probability of or prevents a response from occurring.

\*Negative punishment

Negative reinforcement

Positive punishment

Positive reinforcement

Shaping behaviour

Learning theories

42. A 30-year-old man presents to you in the outpatient department for
    the treatment of withdrawal symptoms due to the use of opioids. He
    reports experiencing severe aches and pains and other such symptoms
    every time he stops using the opioid. Because of this, he would rush
    to find his next dose. The best explanation for the patient's long
    term opioid use would be:

The best answer would be c) negative reinforcement. Using opioids would
provide him relief from the painful symptoms, because of which he would
use opioids again. The removal of the adverse experience caused an
increased likelihood of behaviour. However, positive punishment also
plays some role; the decreased likelihood of "not using opioids" was
caused by the aversive symptoms of withdrawal.

Classical conditioning

Negative punishment

\*Negative reinforcement

Positive punishment

Shaping behaviour

Learning theories

43. While training a dog to identify thieves, a trainer gives food to
    the dog each time he correctly identifies the subject. What
    reinforcement schedule is taking place?

The best answer would be a) continuous reinforcement. Schedules of
reinforcement refer to specific patterns that determine when a behaviour
will be reinforced. Continuous reinforcement takes place when
reinforcement occurs every time. It is the most efficient way to help
acquisition. Intermittent reinforcement occurs when not every instance
of behaviour is reinforced. There are four intermittent reinforcement
schedules: fixed-interval, variable-interval, fixed-ratio, and
variable-ratio.

\*Continuous reinforcement

Fixed-interval schedule

Fixed ratio schedule

Habituation

Intermittent reinforcement

Learning theories

44. Humans develop phobias of snakes, but not phobias of weapons like
    sharp razors. What best explains this?

Preparedness refers to the predisposition of a species to specific ways
of conditioning. For example, humans may develop a phobia of snakes, but
not knives. Martin Seligman considers this adaptive for humans in an
evolutionary perspective; developing fears and phobias to environmental
threats helps survival. The concept also explains conditioned taste
aversion among humans.

Habituation

Latent learning

Observational learning

\*Preparedness

Stimulus discrimination

Learning theories

45. Which one of these refers to the circumstances determining whether
    responses cause the presentation of reinforcers?

In their most basic form, reinforcement contingencies include
antecedents (events that occur immediately before a behaviour),
responses or behaviours, and consequences (events that occur immediately
after a behaviour). We refer to the link between these occurrences as
"contingency." and to the consequences that increase the likelihood of
the behaviour occurring again in comparable circumstances as
"reinforcement." As a result, contingencies of reinforcement explain an
antecedent-behaviour-consequence relationship, in which the consequence
enhances the chance of a behaviour occurring again in the presence of an
antecedent. 

Law of effect

Operant principles

Primack principles

\*Reinforcement contingencies

Reinforcement schedules

Learning theories

46. A child is brought to you for assessment of problem behaviours. The
    mother gives him a toffee to calm him down whenever he cries. This
    happens after a specified number of responses or after a variable
    amount of time. What type of reinforcement is happening?

The best answer would be intermittent reinforcement.

Continuous reinforcement

\*Intermittent reinforcement

Interval schedule

Non-contingent reinforcement

Ratio schedule

Learning theories

47. Involves a specific number of behaviours to be performed before the
    reward is given:

The best answer would be a fixed ratio schedule.

Continuous reinforcement

Fixed-interval schedule

\*Fixed ratio schedule

Habituation

Intermittent reinforcement

Learning theories

48. Which reinforcement schedule occurs when the subject experiences
    reinforcement for a response emitted after equal intervals?

It occurs when we reinforce behaviour after a set time has passed. The
best answer would be b) a fixed-interval schedule.

Continuous reinforcement

\*a fixed-interval schedule

Fixed ratio schedule

Habituation

Intermittent reinforcement

Learning theories

49. In which reinforcement schedule is reinforcement given for a
    response after a variable interval of time?

Reinforcement is given for a response after a variable interval in the
variable-interval schedule. Steady but relatively low level of response.
This occurs when a response is rewarded after an unpredictable amount of
time has passed. Ex: delivering a food pellet to a rat after the first
bar press following a 1-minute, 5 minutes, then 3-minute interval.

Continuous reinforcement

Fixed ratio schedule

Habituation

Intermittent reinforcement

\*Variable-interval schedule

Learning theories

50. We give reinforcement after a fixed number of responses. This would
    be:

The best answer would be b) a fixed ratio schedule. Reinforces after a
set number of behaviours. Relatively High, steady rate of responding. A
response is reinforced only after a given number of responses, such as
delivering a food pellet to a rat after pressing a bar five times.

Continuous reinforcement

\*Fixed ratio schedule

Habituation

Intermittent reinforcement

Variable-interval schedule

Learning theories

51. Behaviour is rewarded an average number of times but is not
    predictable:

The best answer would be e) variable-ratio schedule. Reinforcement
happens after a variable number of responses. It has the highest rate of
responding and is most resistant to extinction. The response is
reinforced after an unpredictable number of responses, for example
delivering food pellets to a rat after one bar press, again after 4 bar
presses, and two bar presses.

Continuous reinforcement

Habituation

Intermittent reinforcement

Variable-interval schedule

\*Variable-ratio schedule

Learning theories

52. A parent gives a child a bar of chocolate whenever he has washed his
    hands the first time following a one-hour interval, then during a
    five-hour interval, then during a three-hour interval. What is the
    schedule of reinforcement?

The best answer would be d) variable-interval. Behaviour is reinforced
after a variable amount of time has elapsed. Steady but relatively low
level of response. This occurs when a response is rewarded after an
unpredictable amount of time has passed. Ex: delivering a food pellet to
a rat after the first bar press following a 1-minute interval, 5
minutes, then 3-minute interval.

Intermittent

Mixed interval-ratio

Non-contingent

\*Variable-interval

Variable-ratio

Learning theories

53. A toffee should only be available when the child has been calm for a
    specific amount of time. This is:

**Contingency**: The reinforcer should only be available when the target
behaviour has been performed. **Immediacy**: The reinforcer should be
delivered immediately after the target behaviour. Reinforcement delayed
may not reinforce the target behaviour.

\*Contingency

Extinction

Immediacy

Shaping

Stimulus discrimination

Learning theories

54. The child should be given a toffee immediately after he has washed
    his face. This is:

**Contingency**: The reinforcer should only be available when the target
behaviour has been performed. **Immediacy**: The reinforcer should be
delivered immediately after the target behaviour. Reinforcement delayed
may not reinforce the target behaviour.

Contingency

Extinction

\*Immediacy

Shaping

Thinning

Learning theories

55. The change from a continuous to intermittent reinforcement schedule
    once the behaviour is well-established reduces the proportion of
    reinforcement to the target behaviour. This is most likely:

The best answer would be e) thinning of contingency schedule.

Contingency

Extinction

Immediacy

Shaping

\*Thinning of schedule

Learning theories

56. Which one of these refers to the process by which consequences lead
    to a greater probability that the response will re-occur:

According to skinner, reinforcement occurs when a consequence
strengthens a response, indicated by an increase in the rate of
responding.

Acquisition

Association

Conditioning

Law of effect

\*Reinforcement

Learning theories

57. Which one refers to an object or event following a response that
    alters the chances of its recurrence?

The best answer would be reinforcer.

Consequence

Contingency

Outcome

Punisher

\*Reinforcer

Learning theories

58. The gradual process of reinforcing an organism for behaviour that
    gets closer to the desired behaviour:

Shaping

Contingency

Reinforcement schedule

\*Shaping of behaviour

Stimulus discrimination

Stimulus generalisation

Learning theories

59. A reward is withheld from a previously reinforced behaviour to
    eliminate or decrease that behaviour. There is a gradual reduction
    in the frequency and intensity of the response. This would be most
    likely:

The best answer would be operant extinction. The gradual reduction in
the frequency and intensity of a response due to the elimination of a
rewarding

Avoidance conditioning

Behavioural contrast

Classical extinction

Extinction burst

\*Operant extinction

Learning theories

60. A reward is withheld from a previously reinforced behaviour to
    eliminate or decrease that behaviour. There is a gradual reduction
    in the frequency or intensity of response. However, at times, there
    is a temporary increase in responses. This is most likely due to:

Extinction burst.

Behavioural contrast

Escape learning

\*Extinction burst

Fading

Prompts

Learning theories

61. When two different behaviours are reinforced, and then the
    reinforcement of one behaviour is withdrawn to extinguish it, the
    other behaviour is likely to increase:

**Thinning of reinforcement schedule:** The change from a continuous to
intermittent reinforcement schedule once the behaviour is
well-established, then reducing the proportion of reinforcement to
target behaviour. **Behavioural contrast:** When two different
behaviours are reinforced, and the reinforcement of one behaviour is
withdrawn to extinguish it, the other is likely to increase.

\*Behavioural contrast

Fading

Law of effect

Shaping

Thinning

Learning theories

62. Which one of the following reinforcement schedules occurs while a
    person develops superstitious behaviour?

Accidental, non-contingent reinforcement. Reinforcement is not tied to
any behaviour. Odd, ritualistic behaviour: Behaviours that the person
was engaging in just before the non-contingent behaviour

Continuous

Fixed ratio

\*Non-contingent

Variable-interval

Variable-ratio

Learning theories

63. A 30-year-old man presented to you with fear of distance from home.
    The patient says he had panic attacks while he was away from home,
    which terrified him, as he could not get any help. Now he stays
    close to home to avoid such situations again. What would best
    explain his confinement to home?

The best answer would be a) avoidance learning. Behaviours that are
maintained by negative reinforcement. Escape behaviour is a two-factor
form of learning (the organism learns to identify a stimulus that
signals the initiation of an aversive stimulus). If the organism
performs the target behaviour in the presence of a cue, the organism can
escape the negative reinforcer. Two factors = discrimination learning
(cue) and avoidance or escape learning. In avoidance learning, a subject
starts emitting a response that prevents them from an aversive stimulus.
In escape learning, the subject emits a response that diminishes or puts
an end to an aversive stimulus.

\*Avoidance learning

Escape learning

Negative reinforcement

Positive punishment

Stimulus discrimination

Learning theories

64. Verbal or physical reinforcements that help the acquisition of the
    target behaviour:

The best answer would prompt. **Prompts** are verbal or physical
reinforcements that help the acquisition of the target behaviour.
**Fading** refers to the elimination of the prompts gradually.
**Shaping:** rewarding behaviours that approximate the target
behaviour---behaviours come closer to the target. **Chaining**:
Developing a chain/sequence of behaviours in which each subsequent
behaviour is contingent on what came before.

Fading

Modelling

\*Prompts

Reinforcers

Shaping

Learning theories

65. The gradual removal of the verbal or physical reinforcements which
    are given to help the acquisition of target behaviours in the
    beginning is:

The best answer would be fading. **Fading** refers the elimination of
the prompts gradually. Shaping: rewarding behaviours that approximate
the target behaviour---behaviours come closer to the target. Chaining:
Developing a chain/sequence of behaviours in which each subsequent
behaviour is contingent on what came before.

Chaining

Extinction

\*Fading

Modelling

Shaping

Learning theories

66. Rewarding behaviours that increasingly approximate the target
    behaviour:

**Prompts** are verbal or physical reinforcements that help the
acquisition of the target behaviour. **Fading** refers to the
elimination of the prompts gradually. **Shaping:** rewarding behaviours
that approximate the target behaviour---behaviours come closer to the
target. **Chaining**: Developing a chain/sequence of behaviours in which
each subsequent behaviour is contingent on what came before. The best
answer would be e) shaping.

Chaining

Extinction

Fading

Modelling

\*Shaping

Learning theories

67. Developing a sequence of behaviours in which each subsequent
    behaviour is contingent on what came before:

**Prompts** are verbal or physical reinforcements that help gain the
target behaviour. **Fading** refers the elimination of the prompts
gradually. **Shaping:** rewarding behaviours that approximate the target
behaviour---behaviours come closer to the target. **Chaining**:
Developing a chain/sequence of behaviours in which each subsequent
behaviour is contingent on what came before. The best answer would be a)
Chaining.

\*Chaining

Extinction

Fading

Modelling

Shaping

Learning theories

68. A therapeutic technique used for behavioural symptoms in patients
    with dementia combines positive reinforcement with extinction such
    that between two competing responses, we reward one behaviour while
    ignoring the other. This is called:

Differential reinforcement: Combining positive reinforcement with
extinction. Reward one of the two competing responses. Reward one
behaviour while ignoring the other behaviour. The law of effect: Any
response followed by a satisfying situation is more likely to be
repeated. Behaviours resulting in an annoying situation is less likely
to occur. Primack principle: A high probability behaviour reinforces a
low-probability behaviour. Ex. Video game-playing (high probability
behaviour), working on the dissertation (low-probability behaviour) -
playing a video game after 1 hour of dissertation work

Behavioural contrast

Chaining

\*Differential reinforcement

Law of effect

Primack principle

Learning theories

69. Because of problem behaviours, a mother brought her 5-year-old child
    with an intellectual disability. Which reinforcement schedule would
    be most suitable for the quickest response?

The best answer would be a) continuous. The establishment of new
behaviour is most rapid with continuous reinforcement, administered
after every desired or correct response. It is the most efficient
reinforcement schedule for a new response and is the quickest to produce
extinction. Maintenance of the target behaviour is maximised with an
intermittent schedule of reinforcement.

\*Continuous

Fixed-interval

Fixed ratio

Variable-interval

Variable-ratio

Learning theories

70. Which one of these are effective because they are classically
    conditioned with primary reinforcers?

The best answer would be a secondary reinforcer. Primary reinforcer: any
reinforcer naturally reinforcing by meeting a basic biological need,
such as hunger. Secondary reinforcers are effective almost like primary
reinforcers because they are classically conditioned with primary
reinforcers. For example, money, which is a secondary reinforcer, is
associated with primary reinforcers, such as foods and drinks, clothes
and so on.

Associative reinforcers

Conditioned reinforcers

Generalised reinforcers

Primary reinforcers

\*Secondary reinforcers

Learning theories

71. Which one refers to reinforcing a non-preferred activity with a help
    of a preferred one?

The Premack principle is that a preferred activity can help reinforce a
non-preferred one. For example, eating a favourite food after
successfully studying for set duration. The Overjustification effect
occurs when external rewards weaken the intrinsic satisfaction of
performing a behaviour. For example, getting paid for writing may cause
the writer to lose motivation writing without getting paid. The best
answer would be the Premack principle.

Chaining

Contingency

Law of effect

Overjustification effect

\*Premack principle

Learning theories

72. A person lost motivation to write articles as hobby after receiving
    monetary rewards writing for a newspaper for year. Before he worked
    for the newspaper, he would write as a hobby. Which best explains
    this?

The Overjustification effect occurs when external rewards weaken the
intrinsic satisfaction of performing a behaviour. For example, getting
paid for writing may cause the writer to lose motivation writing without
getting paid. The Premack principle is that a preferred activity can
help reinforce a non-preferred one. For example, eating a favourite food
after successfully studying for set duration. The best answer would be
d) Overjustification effect.

Chaining

Contingency

Law of effect

\*Overjustification effect

Primack principle

Learning theories

73. A 40-year-old man was detoxified from heroin use in the drug
    detoxification ward. However, when he went back to the company of
    his friends, he felt an extreme desire to retake the drug. Which one
    of these would best explain this?

The best answer would be a) classical conditioning. The company of
friends is associated with these feelings due to long-term pairing with
heroin use. Cue-exposure therapy is one type that helps the extinction
of such associations.

\*Classical conditioning

Operant conditioning

Spontaneous recovery

Stimulus discrimination

Stimulus generalisation

Learning theories

74. A 30-year-old woman develops non-epileptic fits when she her mother
    scolded her. Later, her mother gave her excessive attention and
    care. Gradually, her symptoms worsened, and she started to develop
    fits more often even on experiencing minor stress. What best
    explains this?

Stress may be associated with the fits and so classical conditioning may
be at work; however, the most obvious factor here is the excessive
attention and care from the mother which acts as a reinforcer.

Classical conditioning

Negative punishment

Negative reinforcement

\*Positive reinforcement

Stimulus generalisation

Learning theories

75. A 35-year-old woman is admitted to the hospital with pain in various
    parts of the body. Her pain increases in the presence of doctors,
    and she starts shouting with pain when doctors surround her. What
    best explains this?

The best answer would be positive reinforcement. Doctors may
inadvertently reinforce such behaviours by attending to patients
shouting with pain. Some patients learn to shout to have the doctor's
attention.

Classical conditioning

Negative punishment

Negative reinforcement

\*Positive reinforcement

Stimulus discrimination

Learning theories

76. For which one of these is John Broadus Watson known?

John Broadus Watson was psychologist well-known as the father of
behaviourism. The best answer would be behaviourism.

\*Behaviourism

Functionalism

Mechanism

Rationalism

Structuralism

Learning theories

77. A 30-year-old man is admitted to your ward for the assessment of
    refractory depression. During the assessment, he reveals that
    poverty is his fate. He will not start any work because he failed
    every time he took the initiative. He is showing:

The best answer would be learned helplessness.

Attributional deficits

Cognitive dissonance

\*Learned helplessness

Self-actualisation attributes

The fight-or-flight response

Learning theories

78. An infant identifies his father's voice. A college student is no
    more awakened by his roommate's typewriting late-night. A kitten
    avoids a couch after being punished for sitting on it. A rat learns
    to press a tiny rod for food when a green light flashes. A motorist
    drives at the speed limit when there is a police officer in sight on
    the highway. Which one of these exemplifies the concept of
    habituation?

The best answer would be, college student.

\*College student

Infant

Kitten

motorist

Rat

Learning theories

79. Among the reinforcement schedules, which one is most resistant to
    extinction?

The best answer would be e) variable-ratio.

Fixed-interval

Fixed ratio

Non-contingent

Shaping

\*Variable-ratio

Learning theories

80. Mike receives five dollars each time he wakes up in the morning
    without having a wet bed. Sam experiences nausea every time he uses
    alcohol while being on disulfiram. Lindsay gets candy from mother
    when she has been calm for one hour. Jack, rewards son for sitting
    quietly for ten minutes during week one, 15 minutes during week two,
    20 minutes during week four, 25 minutes during week five. A rat
    receives a mild shock each time it tries to open the door of its
    cage. Which of these would be the best example of shaping?

The best answer would be Jack, who rewards son for sitting quietly for
ten minutes during week one, 15 minutes during week two, 20 minutes
during week four, 25 minutes during week five. **Shaping:** rewarding
behaviours that approximate the target behaviour---behaviours come
closer and closer to the target behaviour.

\*Jack

Lindsay

Mike

Rat

Sam

Learning theories

81. For extinction to occur, which of the following must be true of the
    conditioned response (CR), the conditioned stimulus (CS), and the
    unconditioned stimulus (UCS)? Case 1: The CR occurs after the CS but
    does not occur after other stimuli. Case 2: The CR occurs after a
    stimulus that is similar to the CS. Case 3: The CS and the UCS are
    repeatedly paired, and the CR gains strength. Case 4: The CS is
    repeatedly presented in the absence of the UCS, and the CR loses
    strength. Case 5: When the CR loses strength, a rest period is
    given, after which the CS again elicits the CR.

The best answer would be Case 4.

Case 1

Case 2

Case 3

\*Case 4

Case 5

Learning theories

82. Experiment 1: Blindfolding someone to see how long he takes to find
    a coin hidden in a room. Experiment 2: Deciding how long it takes a
    person to learn how to perform progressive muscle relaxation after
    watching videos. Experiment 3: Applying bitter nail polish to nails
    of children with nail-biting and finding how long it will take
    before nail-biting becomes undesirable. Experiment 5: Rewarding a
    boy that has nocturnal enuresis for dry nights with star charts and
    determining its effectiveness. Which one utilised classical
    conditioning?

The best answer would be experiment 3. The experiment involves both
classical and operant conditioning.

Experiment 1

Experiment 2

\*Experiment 3

Experiment 4

Experiment 5

Learning theories

83. According to the learning theory of Albert Bandura:

The best answer would be b) learning occurs by watching others. Albert
Bandura described observational learning, which is learning by observing
others. Condition occurs vicarious, Bandura identified four key
processes that are crucial in observational learning: attention,
retention, reproduction and motivation. The first two---attention and
retention---highlight the importance of cognition in this type of
learning.

Cognitive function is not important to learning

Learning can occur by \*watching others

Learning is purely vicarious

Learning occurs subconsciously

Motivation is the first step in learning

Learning theories

84. What did Rosalie Rayner and John Watson demonstrate with their
    experiments on Little Albert?

They showed how fear can be a conditioned response by associating a
white rat with a loud noise. Albert developed a fear of rats after
several pairings. Later, he also developed a fear of other white furry
things that resembled the rat.

Emotion can be a conditioned \*response

Extinction can occur with exposure

Fear cannot be a conditioned response

Phobias occur because of displacement

Stimulus discrimination is central to fear

Learning theories

85. On your advice, a mother of a 10-year-old child with an intellectual
    disability praised him every time he washed his hands. This is:

The best answer would be a) continuous reinforcement, in which every
instance of behaviour is reinforced.

\*Continuous reinforcement

Fixed ratio schedule

Primary reinforcement

Shaping behaviour

Stimulus acquisition

Learning theories

86. A person has an allergy to pollen. He sneezes on exposure to pollen.
    However, during spring he often sneezes even when there is no pollen
    around. Sneezing on exposure to pollen is:

The best answer would be an unconditioned response.

Conditioned response

Conditioned stimulus

Primary reinforcer

\*Unconditioned response

Unconditioned stimulus

Learning theories

87. A person eats some street food for breakfast and then spend the
    morning at an amusement park. After a few hours later, he feels
    nauseous and regurgitates the food. The next she is passing by the
    same street food, he feels nauseated. What best explains this?

The best answer would be a) classical conditioning. Conditioned taste
aversion occurs even if the aversive stimuli are not occurring at the
same time. Humans are ready to develop such associations easily.

\*Classical conditioning

Higher-order learning.

Latent learning

Observational learning

Operant conditioning

Learning theories

88. In operant conditioning, what describes adding something to decrease
    the likelihood of behaviour?

The best answer would be e) punishment.

Acquisition

Discrimination

Negative reinforcement

Operant extinction

\*Punishment

Learning theories

89. A mother is trying to condition a child to greet her when she comes
    home. Every time she comes home from her work, she presents the
    child with a gift. The mother noted him greeting her in the past
    three days. This is:

The best answer would be a) acquisition.

\*Acquisition

Discrimination

Extinction

Priming

Shaping

Learning theories

90. Which term best describes rewarding successive approximations of a
    target behaviour?

Shaping is a technique based on operant conditioning that comprises
slowly molding the behaviour by reinforcing responses that are
increasingly closer to the desired behaviour. By rewarding behaviours
that approximate the target behaviour, responses get increasingly
similar to the target behaviour. (Powell, Symbaluk, & Honey)

Acquisition

Fading

Learning

Reinforcement

\*Shaping

Learning theories

91. Seeing a model being punished and then becoming less likely to
    imitate the model's behaviour happen through:

Vicarious punishment

Latent acquisition

Latent punishment

Positive punishment

Vicarious punishment

\*Vicarious reinforcement

Learning theories

92. A drug user receives money every day when he stays off of heroine as
    a part of his contingency-based therapy. Which reinforcement
    schedule is this?

The best answer would be b) fixed-interval. The reinforcement occurs
after a fixed-interval of time.

Continuous

\*Fixed-interval

Fixed ratio

Variable-interval

Variable-ratio

Learning theories

93. Which of the following is an example of instinct?

**Instinct** is unlearned knowledge that involves complex patterns of
behaviour. The best answer would be a) baby seeking food by rooting and
suckling

Baby seeking food by rooting \*and suckling

Being able to guess the right answer

Believing that nudity is wrong

Teacher demonstrating algebra to students

Toddler who is toilet training

Learning theories

94. A young girl watches her mother lock herself in a room, whenever she
    argues with someone. When the girl grows older, she starts to
    exhibit the same behaviour whenever she is displeased by someone.
    This exemplifies:

The best answer would be observational learning. In observational
learning, vicarious conditioning occurs.

Gene-environment interaction

Instinct

Latent learning

\*Observational learning

Operant learning

Learning theories

95. Considering the principles of operant conditioning, when something
    aversive is removed to increase the likelihood of behaviour, it is
    called:

The best answer would be c) negative reinforcement.

Contingency

\*Negative punishment

Negative reinforcement

Positive punishment

Positive reinforcement

Learning theories

96. A naive opioid user watches his peer group injecting heroin with a
    shared needle. Initially, he is afraid of the consequences, however,
    he sees his peers doing the same repeatedly over time without
    noticeable consequences. The patient then starts injections with
    shared needles. What type of learning is this?

The best answer would be d) observational learning.

Classical

Conditioning

Latent learning

\*Observational

Operant

Learning theories

97. Linda experiences fear on seeing a specific lizard. John is afraid
    only seeing a brown lizard. Mike is afraid of seeing any lizard. Sam
    experienced fear when a lizard drops over his head. Lindsay reports
    previous fear on seeing a lizard is now lost. Which of these occurs
    because of stimulus generalisation?

The best answer would be Mike.

John

Linda

Lindsay

\*Mike

Sam

Learning theories

98. Which of the following statements best represent the work of Ivan
    Pavlov?

The best answer would be e) he established the principles of classical
conditioning. Pavlov was a Russian physiologist (not psychologist) who
observed classical conditioning while experimenting on dogs.

He demonstrated the principles of operant conditioning

He described the principles of observational learning

He designed behavioural therapies

He established the principles \*of classical conditioning

He is considered the founder of behaviourism

Learning theories

99. In classical conditioning, associative learning occurs between:

The best answer would be d) neutral stimulus and unconditioned stimulus.

Conditioned stimulus and an unconditioned response

Conditioned stimulus and neutral response

Neutral response and a conditioned response

\*Neutral stimulus and a neutral response

Neutral stimulus and an unconditioned stimulus

Learning theories

100. A child tells a lie and is deprived of pocket money that day by his
     mother. He does this several times, finally learning that speaking
     a lie would deprive him from pocket money for the day. Which kind
     of learning is this?

The best answer would be e) operant conditioning. More specifically,
this is negative punishment; that is, deprivation from a privilege to
decrease a behaviour, that is speaking lies.

Classical conditioning

Latent learning

Modelling

Observational learning

\*Operant conditioning

Learning theories

101. A mother deprives a child of his pocket money whenever he does not
     complete his homework assignment on time. The child starts
     requesting his mother starts crying and continues to an extent of
     unbearable annoyance to get his pocket money. Eventually, his
     mother is annoyed and changes her decision. The mother is
     experiencing:

The best answer would be negative reinforcement. The child's annoyance
is the aversive stimulus, when she gives pocket money to the child, this
aversive stimulus is removed.

Negative punishment

\*Negative reinforcement

Positive punishment

Positive reinforcement

Reciprocal determinism

Learning theories

102. Which of the following is best exemplifies the process of
     observational learning?

Practicing yoga after watching yoga. Latent learning may also happen
while simply watching yoga, but that does not include the other steps of
observational learning.

Learning exercise in a gym

Learning to speak German in class

Observing written German to learn reading it

\*Practicing on yoga after watching yoga

Watching a yoga group in the park

Learning theories

103. A dog is being trained based on the principle of classical
     conditioning, the initial period of learning is known as:

The best answer would be a) acquisition, which refers to the initial
learning phase in conditioning.

\*Acquisition

Latent learning

Primary conditioning

Stimulus discrimination

Stimulus generalisation

Learning theories

104. What was the major flaw with John B. Watson's Little Albert
     experiment?

The best answer would be a) it is unethical for a researcher to induce
fear in a child. (Watson & Rayner) (Fridlund, Beck, Goldie, & Irons,
2012)

\* Inducing fear in a child is unethical

Little Albert was much older than Watson reported

Subjectivity was involved

Watson did not consent Little Albert's mother

Watson falsified most of his data

# Bibliography

Fridlund, A. J., Beck, H. P., Goldie, W. D., & Irons, G. (2012). Little
Albert: A neurologically impaired child. *History of Psychology, 15*(4).
Retrieved 3 8, 2022, from https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2012-01974-001

McSweeney, F. K., & Murphy, E. S. (2014). *The Wiley Blackwell Handbook
of Operant and Classical Conditioning.* John Wiley & Sons. Retrieved 3
9, 2022

Powell, R., Symbaluk, D., & Honey, P. (n.d.). *Introduction to Learning
and Behavior.* Cengage Learning. Retrieved 3 8, 2022, from
https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=WkF8B-Ovl50C&pg=PA430

Watson, J., & Rayner, R. (n.d.). Classics in the History of Psychology
-- Watson & Rayner (1920). *Journal of Experimental Psychology, 3*(1).
Retrieved 3 8, 2022, from
http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Watson/emotion.htm
